
# XP Core Value - Simplicity - Deepika Yannamani

## Week 1 (April 6th - April 12th)
 - The value of simplicity helped us greatly during our planning phase. Before we made the choice of re-implementing 2048, we had a lot of different ideas, and we also wanted our game to have various functionalities such as motion detection, mobile deployment, multi-player interaction, etc. Then we had a meeting together, and we spent a long time finalizing our ideas. I was assigned to keep the XP core value simplicity, so I thought it would be necessary for us to revisit the requirements listed for this group project. Considering the simplicity value and the time limit, I suggested that we shall put our attention fully on what we were required to do, nothing more and nothing less. Therefore we have made the final decision of remaking the 2048 game with design patterns and some additional functionalities.

## Week 2 (April 13th - April 19th)
 - During the planning stage I have already noticed that in the original code of the 2048 Greenfoot game, the author has not fully kept the simplicity value with his/her implementation. I have discovered some complex parts of the initial codes and discussed with the group. The group agreed and decided to re-implement some methods to keep them simple. Meanwhile we also had many other ideas of implementing design patterns with the original code. However after discussion, we decided to keep our progress simple, one step at a time, to avoid possible failures. We decided to first implement the patterns that enhance the original codes, ensure the game consistency and stability, and then add additional functionalitiles.

## Week 3 (April 20th - April 26th)
 - This week all of us have started implementing the design patterns and user stories, and some of us have already started working on the second user story. Although we have more than one tasks to accomplish, we still keep a fixed amount of tasks to work on in order to achieve simplicity. For example, in my case, I have finalized the implementation of observer design pattern. Instead of rushing to implementing the second design pattern that I have been assigned by the group, I made sure my codes for the first pattern were fully functional and did not create bugs when integrating with others' parts. After testing, debugging, and integration, I could finally move on to the next task. Doing one thing at a time was helpful for the group to keep the simplicity value. We have benefitted from this coding habit and did not encounter major failures.

## Week 4 (April 27th - May 3rd)
 - In this week, we have mostly been working on wrapping up the project and checking for anything that has been left behind. This has been a four-week project and we are supposed to submit miscellaneous documents, files, etc. It was first hard to start, but later we decided to review the project requirements and to divide the checking and wrapping-up tasks to each member. Everyone had to make sure that his or her assigned part was properly done and ready to submit, so we as a whole group could have a complete and functional submission. We could not achieve this if we had not kept the simplicity value. It helped us to collaborate efficiently and to avoid failures.
